[docs] Deckhouse Module Tools user guide (#13200)
deckhouse/deckhouse: docs/documentation/pages/module-development/RUN.md

---
title: "How to run and verify a module in the DKP cluster"
permalink: en/module-development/run/
---

> This section describes the process of running a configured module in a Deckhouse Kubernetes Platform (DKP) cluster, as well as setting up validation (linting) and metrics collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the process of running a module in a Deckhouse Kubernetes Platform (DKP) cluster, as well as setting up and configuring Deckhouse Module Tools for validation (linting) and metrics collection.
```

I suggest removing the word “configured” if it does not affect the meaning. Because subconsciously you start looking for information about presetting on the page.

- **Setup**: [Setup configuration template](https://github.com/deckhouse/modules-gitlab-ci/blob/main/templates/Setup.gitlab-ci.yml)
- **Build**: [Build process configuration template](https://github.com/deckhouse/modules-gitlab-ci/blob/main/templates/Build.gitlab-ci.yml)

#### Integration Steps

1. In your project's `.gitlab-ci.yml` file, add references to the templates:

    ```yaml
    include:
      - remote: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deckhouse/modules-gitlab-ci/refs/heads/main/templates/Setup.gitlab-ci.yml
      - remote: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deckhouse/modules-gitlab-ci/refs/heads/main/templates/Build.gitlab-ci.yml
    ```

   Example of template inclusion:  
   [GitLab `.gitlab-ci.yml`, line 2](https://fox.flant.com/deckhouse/flant-integration/-/blob/main/.gitlab-ci.yml?ref_type=heads#L2)

1. After adding the templates, include the linting step in the same `.gitlab-ci.yml` file:

    ```yaml
    Lint:
      extends: .lint
    ```

   Example of the linting step:  
   [GitLab `.gitlab-ci.yml`, line 48](https://fox.flant.com/deckhouse/flant-integration/-/blob/main/.gitlab-ci.yml?ref_type=heads#L48)

> > If your project is hosted in the [https://fox.flant.com/deckhouse](https://fox.flant.com/deckhouse) group, the metrics variables are already configured. No additional setup is required.

Reviewer: What if the project is not in a group? Are variables specified as in the example for GitHub?

Author: Yes, it is told about it

Author: Fixed
